yeah and as a result you weren't able to
form which you were really looking for
was connection with people in whether
you wear your nice guy phase or you were
in your pick up artist these you weren't
actually establishing a connection with
people so you weren't getting what you
wanted to get out of the hole
interaction anyway now there's something
that you mentioned just a little bit
here and I'd like you to talk about in a
bit more depth when you talk about being
honest ensuring that we did you feel of
people so even though when you are using
this direct strategy for the pickup
artist in so in theory you were telling
people how you really felt there's a key
part of that that you still allowing
years experience as you say that was
vulnerable et so little bit about
vulnerability and and how you know
that's right you frozen up a bit on my
end I dunno if you can still in me but
when I noticed was there I thought the
people connected on the smoothness
thought that people connected on your
back then you dropped out there per
second technical difficulties folks who
have to hang in there is in New Zealand
and will have to give him a chance to
make his way back in here let me i
unlock the seat so that when here he is
again I see that he's shown up there go
ahead and i got the seat open for you
can take a seat again there
yeah we go is here I can see up in the
top then they are you see your refresh
your browser here damn it will give you
a chance to take a seat again
or technology and Internet it's
wonderful when it works it can be a
disaster breaks down so far so good we
haven't had a problem with these plans
but I guess there's always a first time
for everything right so in here for a
bit and see about to reconnect year you
work hard just went from six to seven so
I'm hoping that there is alright lemme
get this you'd like to dance on back up
again
alright so I don't know what you're
aware when you dropped off a we had
heard last were talking about the
vulnerability in which that people were
responding to and then you kinda cool
site when I realized as I started
looking at deep relationships start
looking at people who I thought were
really truly connected like I look like
a couple where somebody says been an
accident and one of them said to care
for the other one for a whole year and
they just have no secrets lift you know
like when you had to wipe your partner's
us you know everything there is to know
about them there's nothing to hide and I
start looking these actions I also
looked at the few connections I head
there were Rio with my best friend or my
family as I was different about those to
the connections were actually oh it's
shallow I feel these barriers I feel
isolated and it was about sharing the
darkness and what I mean by that is
talking about the stuff they isn't going
to please people will listen your mind
you think it doesn't talk about the
stuff you're ashamed of your
insecurities your fears doubts all the
stuff that doesn't make you look like a
hero shows that your real human and the
kinda stuff and so I started
experimenting with being more open
around this so letting it come out
naturally as a came up
and it's been amazing to see what
happens when you see your dockside was
someone else one of two things gonna
happen either they're not gonna see
eye-to-eye with its gonna have no
alignment for the gonna push them away
so you should do something with someone
else and that and they leave but the
other people going to go to the
connection we have something in common
like we're both into playing guitar this
is something like we're not trying to
learn how to play guitar like I just
keep banging my head against waters
could make any progress I came so close
to giving up so many times and the other
person they might not play guitar but
they like yeah yeah those like me when I
was learning how to play golf and the
connection happens in the Shi'ite
suffering and sorrow that kind of
commiseration the sympathy and
compassion that comes from hey you were
both humans are being human's hard work
you know being human is fine for a lot
of the time and that's where a real
connection here so my final transition
away from picking up my guess was to
actually allow people to see their raw
vulnerable side of me and in doing so
inviting them to do the same number
tation or they wouldn't and I would let
them go if they didn't but they did we
could go deeper and you get to a point
where eventually you just having awesome
conversations all the time you have real
conversations and no more talk about the
weather I know how was your weekend none
of that bullshit anymore
conversations like what we're talking
about and that was that was the final
transition for me is like a I'm gonna
let people see the bits I don't want
them to see and just see what I yeah you
found that things started to go better
starting to be able to wrap up things
that people could do to make this type
of a difference in their life and so you
want to head in you tried to write it
down right
yes the beginning my first my first
dropped my first book about two weeks
and it was it was awful just awful but
it was a start I just like I had all
these ideas my man there's so many
people I see out there that could
benefit from what I've learned you know
without having to go through all the
shit I had to go through the limit they
could make some shortcuts so i thought
well 00 put it all down my book is
mostly just exercise a lot of stuff that
I used when I as a probation officer to
rehabilitate guys on parole and stuff
like their goals adding stuff by 10 then
I gave it well took a long time to build
up the courage to do this but I
eventually gave it to six people and I
said just tear it apart like go through
it and tell me everything that's wrong
with it and the course that conceived
the idea that came back then it was just
too cold and impersonal and really so
when I read the next edition is twice as
long and full of my personal story and
the stories of others and that's when it
closed for people to show my goals
heading towards boring until you show
them how you know person X applied it to
their life and they had to go through
these barriers and it didn't quite work
and I get to see it for real and that
was the beginning of everything that's
you know once I saw that they could help
people I thought how else can I help
them how else can I work with people to
share these ideas and yeah that's what
branched out into
so when you first time even though what
you were writing about was how you
discovered in being vulnerable was
making this difference you still weren't
ready to be vulnerable enough to include
your story
written it in a way that there really
was no so you this but even as saying
I'm ready to practice but you didn't
share you mentioned working as a parole
officer and I do want to go back to
their let's put it in context and it's a
little bit we got to hear about your
background and then I started working
for you in hour in rewind it a little
bit to go back to when you were in this
nice guy Hayes and what type of jobs
were you when you were when you were
still in there but anything that
somebody else to just go for me so nice
guy is like one version of being a
victim
there's a lot of people out there victim
life which is like to you like a twig on
a stream just caught up in the current
just flown about doing what life tells
you to do or following up the path
that's been cut out for you by somebody
else and so I ended up the kind of jobs
I ended up and we're just like easy to
get safe secure jobs now arrange them
everything from working in a warehouse
to landscaping all selling books to
librarians at some stage for some reason
and it was all just safe easy now if we
are really first are making a shift is
when I start to work for corrections I
had this degree in psychology that I
hadn't used and I thought I should do
something with this cost me a lot of
money to do so
looking to psychology related jobs and
that's right now on probation officer
and as one of the first real moves ever
made was to you know what I'm not gonna
go from gonna go to this this we had job
thus probation thing I've never really I
don't know what they do exactly you know
as I that's a big holes and so yeah that
was the first time going into in my
degree was one of the first moves I may
actually doing something for me but this
this job was really it because it's put
me in a position where all of my fears
were going to be brought up you know I
had a huge thing about being a nice guy
is fear of confrontation nice guys
absolutely choked up in the face of
confrontation because it's a warning
sign that someone's going to disapprove
of you which is our greatest via so I'm
going into a job where 90% of the
conversation too confrontational you
know you're talking to guys who don't
want to be there to be the illegally and
these are anti-social guys you know I
was talking to murderers and rapists and
gang members and guys are just from a
different world to me and I who are more
than happy to get aggressive than to
manipulate me into you know screw up my
mind and it put me in a position where I
had to learn the hard way I mean I got
manipulated so did the first couple of
years I was just guys have me wrapped
around it and after all it's obviously a
risk you know I was at risk of doing
something wrong for my job or just for
my own self worth having a guy like to
view 40 years pretty hard on the also
once you find out about it and so I
started learning how to have
confrontations I start learning how to
assert myself and to use my values to
guide myself when I'm confused or being
manipulated and things like that and
after a while this comes standard
screening out the rest of my life I mean
when you can stand up to a big belly
tattoo gang members like breathing and
stared at you you know some of your
bosses and so scary
only that the girl you like body isn't
so scary anymore and I started noticing
this ripple out so I started practicing
being assertive and all these different
areas and each time every other area
going to be easy it's who you know so
you could like tried here and you know
so then job was crucial because not only
was I practiced saying all these new
skills I there but I was getting
training throughout that psychologists
and stuff I really really helped me just
unlocked my mind so much more